---
title: "{ ReactJS } Virtual DOM"
date: 2023-08-10 15:40:00 +07:00
tags: [ReactJS, DOM, Virtual DOM, Reconcilisation]
---

## ReactJS: Building Dynamic and Interactive Web Apps

ReactJS is a powerful library that empowers developers to create dynamic and interactive web applications, responding to changes in data with seamless user interface updates.

### Key Concepts of ReactJS:

#### DOM (Document Object Model): A Foundation for Web Programming

The DOM, or Document Object Model, serves as a programming interface for text-based documents like HTML and XML. It provides a structured representation of elements in the form of a tree. While developing web applications, operations like creation, updating, and deletion of elements are crucial. However, these operations often involve significant computation time and require re-rendering within the web browser, including applying CSS and JavaScript.

#### Virtual DOM: Efficiently Managing UI Updates

ReactJS introduces the concept of a Virtual DOM, which is a lightweight copy of the actual DOM. Rather than directly manipulating the real DOM and performing costly modifications, ReactJS leverages the Virtual DOM. By comparing the previous Virtual DOM with the updated one, ReactJS efficiently determines and applies changes to the actual DOM. This process, known as "Reconciliation," results in optimized updates and enhanced performance.

#### Reconciliation: Enhancing User Experience

ReactJS follows a structured process for managing UI updates through reconciliation. When the state changes, ReactJS calculates the differences (diffs) between the previous and updated states, followed by a re-rendering of the affected components. This process is orchestrated by the `React.render()` method, ensuring that only the necessary parts of the UI are updated. The outcome is a more responsive and efficient user experience, particularly beneficial for dynamic programming scenarios.

In summary, ReactJS's innovative approach, which includes the Virtual DOM and reconciliation, enables developers to build web applications that dynamically respond to data changes while maintaining optimal performance and user experience.